---
layout:     post
title:      Rational Design of Single Atom Catalysts based on Metal Phthalocyanine for Active and Stable Electroreduction of CO2
subtitle:   Passed the B.Sc. Thesis Defense!
date:       2019-05-23
author:     _
header-img: img/paper1.png
catalog: true
tags:
    - Electrocatalysis
    - Molecular Engineering
    - operando Characterization
    - Density Functional Theory
    - High-throughput Computation
---

# Abstract
CO2 reduction reaction (CO2RR) is a promising technology that can achieve energy conversion and fixation of carbon dioxide emission simultaneously. In this study, a model system of single atom catalyst is constructed by immobilization of nickel phthalocyanine (NiPc) molecules on carbon nanotubes. The NiPc/CNT hybrid features high CO2RR activity and well-fined Ni-N4 active sites, allowing for precise control of electronic structure and understanding of catalytic processes at molecular level. Through molecular engineering, the NiPc-based single atom catalyst can catalyze CO2RR to CO with ~100% selectivity and long-term stability. Extensive experimental characterization and theoretical computation, including electrochemical measurements, operando X-ray adsorption spectroscopy, density functional theory (DFT) calculations, and Symmetry Adapted Perturbation Theory (SAPT) calculations are conducted on NiPc/CNT to understand the CO2RR mechanism and how it is altered by electronic structure modification of the NiPc molecule. A reductive activation step is revealed and confirmed to be the major factor determining the overpotential of the reaction. The adsorption of *COOH is found to be dominated by attractive inductive interaction while the adsorption of *CO is dominated by repulsive exchange interaction. Therefore, a more electron-rich Ni center can weaken the CO binding and improve the structural stability. The effect of molecular catalyst/support interaction and solvation are also investigated with DFT calculation, with the charge transfer properties studied. Finally, based on the knowledge of three molecules studied and mechanisms revealed, a high-throughput computation is performed over a 3400-structure library of substituted NiPc (NiPc-X) by GFN-xTB method. The Fermi level energy is chosen as the intrinsic electronic structure descriptor of NiPc-X, based on which a descriptor-based scheme is established for prediction of overpotential and stability. A tentative overall performance descriptor is proposed and applied to the library, providing directions for rational design of NiPc-based single atom catalysts for electrocatalysis.
